









██████ collective action problems:

we can "bribe" organisations as well if they do what we want them to
- open sourcing your code?
- opening up your pantents so we can all benefit from more collaboration?
- trying harder to account for externalities - although it would cost you more?
    - your advertising gets boosted within the ecosystem, or could even be suggested by default without paying anything
    - you get a higher score
    - your employees & leaders get a higher score

- engaging in planned obsolescence? ==> Penalty.

- Suppose a company makes tens of billions of earnings per year - why don't they direct 0.1-0.2% of their earnings towards fixing their Cobalt supply chains so that there isn't human slavery in the Congo?
- we need to be able to shame companies for their exploitative practices - whatever those may be (psychological, monetary, etc.)




██████ Automated/implicit influence

- without you having to explicitly read what somebody has said?


██████ attention & availability cascades


"Attention is the cursor of consciousness." - Jim Rutt



who cares if a submarine imploded as compared to all of our greatest challenges - why does it get surfaced in the global conscience?






██████ Competing views

We can give more weight to the opinions of those. And we can have different opinions


██████ 



██████ 





██████ privacy and anonymity












██████ UNUSED STUFF

How do I easily query "has X ever expressed an opinion on this topic, an if so - what?"
Example: Wikipedia page about Utilitarianism - it has a criticism section. Why am I not able to query "show me all criticism of Utilitarianism from people I follow"?

Being able to query everything that relates to something and filter that - Integration

TODO: ontology... big problem
ontological engineers

LLMs as helpers for structured data

we can crowdsource what someone has said even if they don't have an account. And later when they make an account we can simply link the 2 entities/identifiers and have everything integrated.





Login with SSO/Google









new kinds of signals - bias, clickbaity-ness, not presenting the full picture, loaded language, missing citations





any parameter of a social media could be put to a vote
we can put actual psychology professors in charge of the dials of recommendation algorithms and have them tune them in public - transparently


More on predictions and structured data




What if web3 is not "the Internet of value" as in transactional value, but the internet of values?





We need to make a new adaptive landscape that’s not tied to money and resources and yet people would compete in it
No. Dont mention this

layering incentives

The design space for social media is vast - and is far from exhausted by tiktok, facebook and instagram





We can greate a global participatory social operating system with identity & incentive design as the foundation ang give rise to a true meritocracy.

how do we optimize society?
how do we make sure capital and human labor is allocated better?













> "It is my great hope someday, to see science and decision makers rediscover what the ancients have always known. Namely that our highest currency is respect." - [Nassim Nicholas Taleb](https://www.goodreads.com/quotes/557440-it-is-my-great-hope-someday-to-see-science-and)



